Professor sea freed there has been so
much money invested on the war against
cancer over the years in research people
have been fundraising trying to raise
money to you know continue to do
research to try and find the Cure
we've made very little progress given
what we've been doing in the energy and
money invested why do you think this is
well thank you Jesse listen
according to the
uh National Cancer Institute American
sorry American society
uh
for cancer
we've made big progress
okay so you got it we've dropped cancer
deaths by 30 30 something for 37 percent
um so they consider we're making big
progress American Cancer Society out of
Atlanta Georgia
so in the 1990s early 1990s we really
instituted big
the anti-smoking campaign
so people stop smoking because they
realize that put them at risk for cancer
and the big drop or the great advantage
that everybody is talking about how much
wonderful events we made in cancer is
that the projection had we not stopped
smoking
we would have a lot more dead people
from cancer today than we had in 1990.
so what you do is you run out that that
trajectory to 2023 and say oh if we
continue to smoke we would have had a
lot more cancer so the fact that we
stopped smoking we actually reduced the
number of cancer deaths by 35 percent or
whatever it is
but it's a projection from from
prevention
uh no advance from any therapeutic
treatments that were given so most of
the great advance in cancer over the
last 30 40 years came from the people
not smoking now the other problem we
have in today now is that obesity is
replacing cancer as a number one risk
factor for for the for the problem so
we're back to almost where we started
from and we're not making any real
progress
the the problem is is that
um there's a misunderstanding about what
the nature of the disease is and this is
the real issue it's not so much smoke
and mirrors as what the uh the cancer
societies like to use
um it's the failed recognition that
cancer is a metabolic disease it's not
it's not a genetic disease so when you
look at the treatments that you see for
cancer patients what are these
treatments chemo radiation and some of
these new immunotherapies and we hear
new drugs all the time being developed
for cancer and yet the more drugs that
we develop for cancer the more cancer we
get so um there's something seriously
wrong here and if you look back at the
drugs we're developing they're all based
on the somatic mutation theory of the
disease which is cancer is a disease of
somatic mutations and that
um you know we we have drugs that are
Precision medicine targeted therapies
and all this kind of stuff they make it
seem like this is going to be the
solution to the problem it's not uh
because the disease is not a genetic
disease so most of the stuff that we're
using is largely irrelevant and it's
toxic hurts the patient costs a lot of
money and it really doesn't do the job
that you'd expect it to do of course
there are a few people that respond
really really well and we use those
people to justify why we need to
continue with this kind of strategy but
in the long run uh it's not going to
help the majority of cancer patients
that do end up dying suffering from the
treatments so and that has to do largely
with the misunderstanding of what the
nature underlying mechanism is for the
disease and as I said it's a metabolic
disease that can be that's driven by two
fuels the sugar glucose and the amino
acid glutamine and these two fuels are
the ones that drive the dysregulated
cell growth which is ultimately the
definition of cancer so when people say
what is cancer it's disregulated cell
growth cell division out of control what
is it driven by it's driven by a form of
energy that doesn't require oxygen oh
yeah well what doesn't require oxygen
well fermentation mechanisms oh yeah
what's that well you use fuels that
don't require oxygen what are these
fuels these fuels are the sugar glucose
and the amino acid glutamate wow that
seems simple how come nobody's targeting
these fuels to manage cancer because
they think it's a genetic disease not a
metabolic like disease not that
complicated you mentioned earlier on how
all the progress being made or at least
the majority is when it comes to
prevention because people aren't smoking
as much
the doctors that are giving these
treatments and the researchers who are
coming up with these drugs do you feel
like they feel in their hearts that
they're making progress
or
are they oblivious to what you're
talking about there where it's just a
smoking Factor
yeah well I think they intrinsically
know I mean they're the guys treating
the patients of course they have some
success
but they also see a lot of failures and
um but they're told what to do by us by
the AMA American Medical Association the
standard of care is is like written in
Granite and their job is not to question
the standard of care but to follow the
rules of the standard of care which then
if you come in with lung cancer breast
cancer colon cancer bladder cancer they
have a protocol that they use to treat
that surgical first perhaps radiation
perhaps a a treatment program for a
program for some drug
um and thereby the grace of God you
survive
but a lot of people don't survive and
that's why we have over 1 600 people a
day every single day dying from cancer
in this country and it's over eight
thousand a day in China and it's it's
rampant throughout the world and they're
talking about cancer replacing heart
disease as the number one killer of
people on the planet for a disease basis
so if if they're already recognizing
that cancer will overtake heart disease
in the next year and in fact in China it
already has overtaken heart disease that
tells us that they're making no progress
because if they were making progress
heart disease would remain as the number
one killer but cancer is now ready to
overtake heart disease so if we're
making so many so much progress about
the smoke and mirrors and all this other
stuff why why are we why we have so many
people dying from cancer sixteen hundred
people a day dying think of all the
people that are massively suffering from
the treatments they received from this
um if you had something successful you
would be able to drop the death rate
even even President Biden this state of
the union speech he wants to drop cancer
death rates by I don't know 50 percent
in 30 years we can drop that we can drop
that in five years knowing what we know
about the origin of of cancer as a
metabolic disease those numbers are
easily achievable if you switch the the
the Paradigm it's not a genetic disease
it's a metabolic disease so if we treat
the cancer as a metabolic disease yeah
we're going to get what President Biden
wants in a lot faster time well the
interesting thing is that you've been
doing this research you and your team
and other teams for years and you know
you've you've put together this case for
what we're going to talk about today
and I'm just curious what happens when
you and your team release a paper in a
major journal
and it does simplify things again what
we're going to get into today like
how can that not get the recognition
when it's so obvious that things aren't
working the current way that they are
yeah you should
you know the reasons right
um
there's several reasons
number number one the Dogma the Dogma
says cancer is a genetic disease and uh
we must stay the course that's one
reason the other reason is lack of
knowledge most oncologists never heard
of what I'm telling you they don't read
the scientific they don't read these
papers so if you don't read the paper
how are you ever going to be told that
what's right or what's not right when
patients who do have great success with
metabolic therapy go back to their
oncologist the oncologist says wow
that's really good continue to do what
you're doing well don't you want to know
what I'm doing why I'm not like the rest
of your opinion no I don't want to know
that just continue to do what you're
doing these are the kinds of responses
and then most importantly
it's hard to get somebody to accept
something when their salary depends on
them not accepting it
so uh and I think that might be the uh
one of the biggest uh challenges that we
have so it's not one thing it's it's a
group of things that prevent and my
papers are being read don't don't get it
wrong it's just they're not being cited
they're being essentially ignored well
where are my curiosity is just to go a
little bit further into this
you know why isn't a journalist out
there realizing that
he could basically make his or her
career
from you know printing an article that
people understand in Time Magazine
and and getting this out to the masses
and and you could be the recipient of a
Nobel Prize like there's there is so
much potential here for somebody to
to decipher
and and sift this information in a major
publication like Time magazine or the
New York Times in a way people can
understand it and grab onto it and start
to get some momentum going
yeah well you know it's not that easy uh
when a journalist would hear what we're
saying they run off to uh MD Anderson
Sloan Kettering Dana Farber and they
asked the top oncologist what do you
think of this uh there's no evidence to
support that
right rather than looking at the data
themselves and why don't you ask the
patients who were survived as the the
multitudes of people that are
surviving as the result of this and and
don't think
um this is not going unnoticed uh the
documentary movie of uh the cancer
Revolution which is under construction
for part A has already been uh developed
and they interview dozens of people that
were so-called terminal uh I'm alive I'm
doing well I'm doing well I'm alive I'm
alive all back and forth so how long
will it take and don't forget most
people prefer to watch The Bachelor
rather than documentaries right I mean
you have to look at that look at the
look at what people are watching do you
think they want to watch a a show on
cancer versus a really exciting uh show
about the bachelor I mean that's where
the mentality is where the mindset is
people people have enough problems in
their life they don't want to be talking
about cancer unless unless it affects
them directly and then when it affects
them directly Where do they they go they
go to the top medical schools and then
they ask them what about metabolic oh no
no if metabolic therapy were real I
would have heard about it okay where are
the clinical trials yeah I can't believe
anything unless I see a clinical trial
supporting you can't do a clinical trial
on the kinds of metabolic therapy we do
with double-blind crossovers it would be
immoral to do that a person to do
metabolic therapy it's diet drug Combos
and you can't do the strategy uh uh the
way it's being done currently in in the
pharmaceutical attempts to make drugs
for for for uh clinical trials so so we
have to redesign the types of clinical
trials compare it to
um what we call uh historic controls
okay so for glioblastoma the brain tumor
you know um if you if you're surviving
after five years there may be five or
seven percent of people that get
standard of care that actually survive
five years okay so we're not going to
put in a group of GBM patients that get
radiation and chemo and uh and as a
matter of fact they will not let they
will not do the critical control group
and they do this for a lot of answers so
we're going to use standard of care
which is radiation and chemo plus
metabolic therapy okay how does that
work but where is your metabolic Therapy
Group by itself to compare standard of
Care standard of care with metabolic
therapy metabolic therapy by itself uh
can't do that sorry so the very system
will not not allow this stuff to get
through the system because God forbid it
works suppose the metabolic therapy
people live a hell of a lot longer than
standard of care or even standard of
care with metabolic there what's going
to happen
if you enjoyed that clip press here for
the full episode I'll see you over there
what I'm talking to you about almost
nobody in the field knows anything that
I'm saying here and how do I know that
because they're not using these
techniques and there's in their clinics
if they if they understood what I'm
saying they would be transitioning over
to this immediately